do you want to increase the views on
your reels I'm sure you do that's why
you're here that's why you clicked on
this video and that's why I'm about to
share with you my 20 top strategies for
increasing the amount of views and reach
that your reels are receiving I'm gonna
let you know right now that each one of
these 20 strategies is going to get
increasingly more advanced so if the
first few seem a little bit beginner to
you stick around until the end because
you might just learn something that will
blow your mind
before we even get into this list there
are a few things that we need to get out
of the way first of all I recommend that
all of your reels be related to your
Niche who is the specific demographic of
follower who you're trying to attract
and what is the specific topic you are
going to be talking to them about you
need to have that ironed out before we
start posting reels if you're just
posting reels about any random things
you might occasionally have reels that
do well but ultimately you're not going
to be attracting any specific kind of
follower and those followers are never
likely going to be transitioning from
followers into actual customers so it
really all starts with and boils down to
having a niche but with that being said
it's also important to note that your
reels views are always going to be
declining unless you are actively
bringing in new followers why is that
well let's think about the math using
simple numbers if you gain 100 followers
then on the day that those 100 followers
follow you they're all at the peak of
their engagement that was the day that
they found your content that they
scrolled through your page they liked
what they saw and they decided to follow
for more but each day after that a
certain percentage of them will drop off
they will either stop using Instagram
they'll stop using Instagram as actively
they'll stop looking at your posts the
algorithm will stop showing them your
posts they might get logged out of their
account they might get hacked there are
so many reasons why people's use of
Instagram is going to change over time
if someone follows you that's when they
are most engaged so over time if you're
not actively adding in new followers
your views are going to be consistently
going down and that's one of the huge
challenges that so many people are
facing right now is that they're not
growing their following your following
has stayed stagnant thus causing your
views to continue to slightly decline
over time and that decline in views
means that you're reaching less people
which means that you have less
opportunities to gain new followers
which means that this cycle is just
going to continue to repeat itself so we
have to start using strategies that help
our reels reach new people that allow us
to actually connect with a broader
audience and bring in new followers so
that our views can go up and this cycle
can start to feed into itself in a
positive direction rather than
continuing going downhill strategy
number one for increasing your reels
views is including a hook at the
beginning of your reel like I said
relatively simple I will give you a pro
tip here and that's to start using
negative hooks occasionally in your
reels stop trying to grow your following
you don't need more followers Studies
have shown that when using a negative
word such as stop or avoid or don't do
this or stay away from this can grab
people's attention it's our human nature
to pay more attention to the negative
things than the positive things my
caveman brain is way more likely to
notice the one tiger rather than the 300
cute cuddly squirrels that I've walked
by I need to pay attention to the thing
that is going to harm me and so using
these negative words at the beginning of
your reel can be a great way to grab
people's attention but like I said just
do this occasionally if you start to
overuse these negative words then your
reels can kind of become White Noise as
everything is negative everything is
stopped everything is avoid and so
nothing is really that serious nothing
is really that negative but if you're
looking for a number I would recommend
approximately a quarter of your direct
to camera talking head style reels
starting with some sort of negative word
strategy number two for increasing the
views on your reels is to use calls to
action calls to action are as essential
as it gets for your Instagram reels and
they can directly lead to more views and
that's because it's the algorithm's job
to make sure that your reels are seen by
the people who want to engage with it if
your reel is very engaging and people
are engaging with it then it's keeping
people on Instagram which means
Instagram can sell more ads or sell ads
for more money they make more money as a
business and in turn they want to make
sure that those kinds of reels the
really engaging ones are seen by more
people so one of the most reliable ways
to increase your engagement is to Simply
ask people to engage I'm going to
practice right now by asking you to
leave a thumbs up on this video if
you've already found it beneficial or
useful when you tell people to do
something they are so much more likely
to do it I know we might like to dream
and assume that our followers are super
engaged and they're smart enough to know
to like our videos and and they're
paying enough attention to know to save
if it's valuable But ultimately most
people are scrolling through Instagram
or scrolling through social media in
general very mindlessly not super
consciously and so when you tell them
what to do their subconscious brain
their kindergarten their brain is like
okay yeah I'll do that I'll like this
video I'll save this video so ask people
for the engagement that you want to
receive my Pro tip for calls to action
is rather than placing them in the
caption which Studies have shown less
than 50 of people will even read or
placing them at the end of your video
like most people do place them somewhere
in the middle if not towards the front
of your video recently I've been been
experimenting adding my call to action
immediately after my videos hook and
it's been cool to see the increase in
engagement that I've received because of
that strategy number three for
increasing the views on your reels is to
share your reels to your Instagram story
when you share your reels to your
Instagram story any views that your
stories receive that 24 hour period will
count on your reel so if you share your
reel to your story you get 300 views on
that specific story that day then your
reel will get 300 additional views now I
do want to give you a word of caution
here and it really depends on what your
strategy is but according to Instagram's
CEO people the Instagram users aren't
the biggest fan of seeing reels or
seeing any content really shared to
stories it's generally a negative
experience something people don't enjoy
seeing and so because of that oftentimes
when you're sharing a post from your
feed to your stories your stories views
will go down during that period but your
reels views will increase during that
period so it's kind of a which one do
you want do you want to keep your story
views where they're at relatively high
or if you're sharing a post from your
feed to your stories maybe you're okay
with having a dip in story views but
it's worth it because you're going to be
getting more views on that specific reel
pros and cons I didn't plan on these
first three strategies each having a pro
tip but there is a pro tip for this
third strategy as well and that's when
you're adding the real to your stories
or when you're sharing it to your
stories add an engagement sticker as
well so there's that slider bar that
Instagram offers there's the little
Emoji sticker you could run a poll or
have some sort of quiz on that specific
story and I find that this is a great
way to keep people engaged with the
story themselves and even to build
curiosity towards your reel let's say
your reel was a very educational reel
where you were sharing some sort of
surprising fact or you were dispelling a
myth you could run a poll on that
Instagram story and ask people to vote
what they think think the correct answer
is and if the answer is surprising or if
most people are getting the answer wrong
it might create curiosity or create more
of a reason for that story viewer who
got the answer wrong to then want to
watch your full reel and figure out what
the right answer is or why you're saying
that they were wrong so running some
sort of poll or quiz on your stories
with the Reel that you've also shared to
your stories is a good way to increase
the views on that story and thus
increase the amount of views that you're
getting on the Reel I did want to let
you know that if you want all of my
Advanced tips and strategies for growing
on Instagram not just random advice for
growing on reels that might work for you
I would recommend joining our insta Club
Hub the insta Club Hub is the premiere
Instagram destination it is the last
Instagram resource you will ever need
you'll never have to join another course
you'll never have to hire another coach
you'll never even have to download
another free pdf the insta Club Hub has
all of that for you from trainings to
free post ideas to q and A's to expert
coach coaching all of that is included
in the insta Club Hub and you can join
now and try it out for two weeks for
just seven dollars click on the link
Down Below in the description or visit
instaclubhub.com forward slash trial and
you'll get to join for again less than
ten dollars and check it out for two
weeks see everything that we have to
offer attend one of our live trainings
on Advanced subjects listen to our most
recent updates on what the latest
Instagram news is check out this week's
trending audios that we recommend you
use and see if the insta Club Hub is all
that it's cracked up to be you can join
now again by visiting
instaclubhub.com forward slash trial
let's get back into the list though tip
number four for increasing your reels
views is to improve your camera quality
now for most of us what I'm not going to
recommend you do is go out and buy a
fancy camera that's not the solution
before we do that first of all let's
just make sure to always clean off our
camera lens before pressing record I
can't tell you you how many times my mom
specifically and so I'm going to
generalize this to women more broadly
you'll have like a makeup stain on your
camera lens or a slight smudge on your
camera lens and it creates a little
glare or it reduces the video quality so
ladies especially make sure to wipe off
your camera lens but I know that even
myself sometimes I'll have these little
tiny smudges on my camera lens which
create a distortion in the video even
just a slight glare from any lights in
the room so just make sure to always
clean off your camera lens my second tip
for improving your camera quality is to
Simply use the back camera on your
device rather than the front facing
selfie camera I know you're tempted to
use the front-facing camera so that you
can see where you're at and position
yourself accordingly but the back camera
is oftentimes far better quality and
what I like to do is just use my Watch
connect my watch to my phone so that I
can actually use my Watch as a
viewfinder and then I can easily
position myself exactly where I want but
still use the back facing camera so that
I have maximum quality and then my third
tip is to actually go into your phone's
settings and make sure that you are
shooting at the highest possible
resolution that way you have the ability
to shrink the file in the future the
ability to crop in the ability to make
all these edits and not worry about your
video getting progressively worse and
worse quality another thing to consider
in terms of camera quality is just the
brightness of your video brighter videos
can get up to 60 percent more engagement
on social media so just consider
standing near a window maybe investing
in a ring light or a soft box light like
I have here just to brighten up your
videos a little bit tip number five for
increasing your reels views is to focus
on audio quality audio is half a video
yet so many people myself included often
forget about audio in fact for my first
few years of growing on Instagram I
didn't use a mic and I didn't pay very
much attention at all to audio quality
and looking back at some of those old
videos it's really jarring you can hear
Bad Echoes you can hear inconsistent
audio across lips or you can just hear
General distortions within my audio and
audio like I said is 50 of video so it's
vastly important we spend so much time
energy money and effort focusing on the
video quality and is it 4K is it the
highest resolution is it crispy and
clean is the background super blurry but
the foreground super in focus and we
forget that you can for about 10 or 15
bucks buy a microphone off of Amazon
have it delivered the next day and that
alone will significantly increase the
quality of your videos and thus the
amount of views that they're likely
going to receive in fact I've had this
little microphone right here from Amazon
for about the last seven years and I
don't even think they sell it anymore
but it's just a cheap microphone and it
still works and it's still the primary
microphone that I use when I'm recording
my reels anywhere besides this desk with
audio in mind though it's important to
note that the majority of Instagram
viewers watch their reels on mute in
fact some studies see suggest that four
out of 5 reels viewers will be watching
with their volume turned off and so this
tip is to include closed captions in
every single reel that you make and the
great thing about closed captions is not
only do they make your reels more
accessible to anyone watching Instagram
whether they have their audio on or not
whether they even can listen to your
audio or not but the second reason why
closed captions are so awesome is that
they can be used strategically to
improve the engagement quality of your
video or the attention grabbing
qualities of your reel take a look at
these two reels on the screen right now
and you're likely going to notice that
the real on the left is far more
engaging and dynamic than the real on
the right despite having the exact same
video despite having the exact same
editing the only difference is the
closed captions of this video on the
left are far more Dynamic and engaging
and thus they're more likely to grab
your attention and hold your attention
for closed captions my two favorite apps
and no this is not sponsored in any way
our number one cap cut or number two
mixed captions speaking of the text on
your screen though tip number seven for
increasing your reels views is to limit
the amount of text on the screen at one
time generally speaking there's a few
rules of graphic design that you don't
want to break in your reels unless
you're breaking them strategically or
creatively or intentionally those rules
generally are that any sort of title or
headline is going to go up above your
head if you're labeling yourself or
labeling a character in the real that's
going to go above your head closed
captions usually are going to go below
your head usually right below your mouth
or right below your chin and any other
text generally speaking you're going to
want to keep it towards the center of
the Reel oftentimes we're tempted to
squeeze a bunch of different text onto
the screen and some of its rainbow
colored some of this Fawn and then a
different font over here and some of
it's at an angle and some of it's bigger
and smaller but really that can be
jarring for our audience and make it
tougher for them to consume our content
so generally speaking I try to limit my
amount of text to two different bubbles
or two different pieces of text on the
screen at one time any more than that
can start to be too much tip number
eight for increasing your reels views
and this one might surprise some people
especially coming from me so stick with
me for just a second tip number eight is
inconsistency in fact intentionally
being inconsistent with your reels now
hold on hold on hold on hold on let me
explain exactly what I mean by that
really what I'm saying here is that if
you want to significantly increase your
reels views and get more views post
after post then it might be beneficial
for you to post less frequently AKA less
quantity but instead to focus on quality
now I am a champion of the phrase the
more you post the more you grow and I am
a firm believer that generally speaking
your focus should be on quantity because
I believe that when you focus on
quantity you could also say that you're
focusing on on practice and as you
practice more as you post more you will
improve and your quality will naturally
get better over time and Studies have
shown that as you post more oftentimes
you will be reaching more people overall
and you will be growing more but the
distinction here is that typically when
you post more each individual post will
reach less people let me say that again
as you post more each post will likely
get less views but your overall account
views or your overall accounts reached
will increase but with that in mind if
your specific reason for watching this
video is to increase the views of your
individual reels and to get more people
interacting engaging and watching each
one of your individual posts then it
might behoove you to post less
frequently but instead focus on quality
now of course if you're new to making
Instagram reels if you don't know how to
make great content yet it's going to be
quite challenging and quite time
consuming to make a high quality quality
post without a lot of practice so you
might want to temporarily focus on
quantity and then shift your focus to
Quality as you get better but if you're
someone who already has a good grasp of
how to make a quality real then it might
be more beneficial for you to instead of
posting multiple times a day to post
once a day or even every other day or
even less frequently than that if it's
going to mean that you can maintain a
more consistent level of quality again
there are pros and cons to each strategy
and you're gonna have to know yourself
and ultimately you're going to have to
test within your own account to see if
less frequent posting also known as more
inconsistent posting leads to more views
for you it may it may not but it's worth
a shot tip number nine for increasing
your Real views and we're starting to
get a little bit more advanced here as
we're entering into the second half of
this top 20 but it is to use a variety
of angles for your reels whether you are
doing a lip sync reel whether you are
doing a behind the scenes reel or if you
are most specifically doing a direct to
camera talking head reel having multiple
angles creates a feeling of higher
quality and a dynamic viewing experience
think about whenever you're watching a
movie or a TV show there are oftentimes
multiple camera angles of even just one
person having one single monologue
oftentimes you'll see a cut every single
sentence between different camera angles
even though you're still just looking at
the same person so a way that I would
recommend doing this is essentially film
your entire reel from One camera angle
and then film the entire reel again from
a separate camera angle if you only have
one camera of course if you have two
cameras you could just set them both up
to record at the same time and then cut
between both of them that would probably
save you more time but it would also
cost you more money but having multiple
camera angles or having multiple cuts
which we'll talk more about in just a
second is a great way to increase the
views on your reels tip number 10 for
increasing your reels views is to
eliminate dead air dead air is any time
you pause
or you're thinking
or
um you're slowing down your speech or
you say um or ER or ah or like these
words are very useful and normal in
conversational English but when you are
watching a video on Instagram unless
it's your specific style tone and Pace
that you're going for most of the time
people want you to eliminate those um's
errors Oz
because they are opportunities for
people to get distracted or to lose
interest generally speaking I like to
eliminate all of those different moments
from my reels so that my reels are much
more engaging throughout and I avoid
those momentary interrupts where someone
might get distracted or might be tempted
to keep scrolling with time and practice
you will oftentimes naturally eliminate
these things from your recordings but
when you're first getting started the
easiest way to do it is just to edit
them out in the editing phase look for
any time that your Audio Waves kind of
dip down or any time that you're going
uh in your reels and chop those out and
they should eliminate the dead air or
the Dead Space strategy number 11 for
increasing your reels views very much
relates to number nine and number 10 but
it's just generally to have Quick Cuts
some people call it the two second rule
the three second rule the four second
rule but four seconds is the most I
would go here and this is a general rule
or recommendation that comes from the
world of TV and Cinema and that is that
if you have a single clip that lasts for
more than four seconds without any
change without any sort of cut
transition effect b-roll or change in
the closed captions on the screen that's
an opportunity for people to lose
interest Studies have shown that we
humans have a smaller retention span
than goldfish which means that if you
are having us watch a video for more
than seven seconds without any sort of
change or dynamic cut or transition
we're very likely to get bored and keep
scrolling so keep our goldfish brain
intact keep our attention on your video
by having some sort of cut change
transition effect something like that
every three to four seconds at least tip
number 12 for increasing your reels
views is to have Variety in the
presentation of your reels it can be
very tempting as content creators to
film in the same spot to film in the
same style with the same tone of voice
with the same background and I know
myself personally I even fall into this
trap sometimes oftentimes I film my
reels right here with this mic with this
background wearing a camp collar shirt
like I am right now and unfortunately if
your reels are too consistent in terms
of visual quality or if you sound the
same in every single one of your reels
or if they look the exact same in terms
of background and style that can start
to get a little bit boring for your
audience there's that old cliche saying
variety is the spice of life and I like
to say yes variety is the spice of life
but it's also the price of attention on
your social media content if all of your
posts start to look feel and sound the
exact same they they can oftentimes
become boring or become white noise to
your audience so change it up change up
what you're wearing change up your tone
of voice change up your background
record in a new setting go to a
different room or area in your home and
that should hopefully help people stay
engaged and thus increase the views on
your reels strategy number 13 is text
post reels now we know that reels
oftentimes are videos they're Dynamic
they're you talking to the camera or lip
syncing or doing some dance but having a
three or four second long Reel with a
very simple audio in the background that
has maybe a paragraph or two of text on
the screen can be a great way to gamify
the algorithm hack the system a little
bit and increase your reels views
because essentially what's going to be
going on here is people are going to be
reading that text that one or two
paragraphs of engaging text maybe you're
telling a story or giving a tip or
giving some sort of reminder or
motivational speech something and people
they're reading through it but what's
actually going on is the Real is playing
from start to finish two or three or
four times continuously looping as
someone is reading that text on the
screen a very common form of viral real
on Instagram is essentially a b-roll
clip in the background just some random
clip of you working at your desk or
doing yoga or rock climbing or whatever
it is that you do in your Niche and
Industry and then some text over the
screen or I should say quite a bit of
text over the screen the video is really
short it Loops over and over again the
viewer is busy reading the text not even
realizing the real has started and
finished multiple times now and thus
that's a great form of Engagement in the
algorithm's eyes and the Instagram
algorithm will show you to more people
the name for strategy number 14 comes
from one of our insta Club Hub students
and she named it the mini skirt Rule and
the mini skirt rule pertains to the
length of your reels she said that just
like a mini skirt your reels should be
short enough to grab people's attention
but still long enough to cover what
needs to be covered so rather than
saying hey your reel should be seven
seconds or it should be 45 seconds or it
should be 12 seconds and giving you some
blanket uniform statement to stick to
instead just follow this general rule
that your reels need to be long enough
to cover whatever it is that you wanted
to cover or address or teach or share
but still short enough to grab attention
basically eliminate redundancy and be as
concise as possible in communicating
whatever it is that you want to
communicate tip number 15 is to
incorporate color psychology into your
reels different colors can elicit
different subconscious and emotional
responses in your viewers for example
the color blue has been shown to promote
trust the color green has been shown to
promote action the color red in your
reels has been shown to promote grabbing
people's attention and getting them to
stop their scroll so use these colors
strategically you have your call to
action be a different color than your
hook have certain keywords in your real
stand out with different colors and it
can be a great way to grab or hold your
audience's attention tip number 16 for
increasing your Real views is
specifically for those of you who are
doing direct to camera talking Style
videos which according to a recent poll
of my audience represents about 30 to 40
percent of you 30 to 40 of my followers
said that the number one primary kind of
reel they post is a talking head direct
to camera style video my tip here is to
include b-roll in those reels b-roll is
essentially a secondary clip a clip that
oftentimes will play over top of you
talking think about when you're watching
a news story on the Nightly News you
don't just watch the news anchor staring
at the camera speaking the entire time
oftentimes the news anchor will
introduce the story they'll start
talking but then you'll start seeing
cuts of different pre-recorded footage
and videos that were recorded at the
scene of the car crash or you know at
the locals Elementary School that just
opened up and that actively keeps you
engaged so you're are not just engaged
by the words being spoken but also by
the visual that are being presented
include this b-roll and remember to
stick to the rule of two or three or
four seconds as well tip number 17 for
increasing your reels views is to Trend
spot over on Tick Tock Trends oftentimes
originate on Tick Tock before making
their way over to Instagram reels so
spend some time on Tick Tock looking for
Trends you could follow some of those
Tick Tock accounts that specifically
post about the latest trends and the
latest trending audios or you could just
scroll through your Tick Tock for you
page and if you start to hear the same
audio over and over again or you start
to see the same meme show up over and
over again or the same joke or the same
whatever style of video then you might
have a clue that that is trending on
Tick Tock and thus likely going to be
trending on Instagram in the next few
days or weeks like I said they start on
Tick Tock and then they work their way
over to Instagram so by spotting the
trend on tick tock and being one of the
first people to use it or one of the
original users or creators who who does
this trend on Instagram you can then
kind of be the trendsetter on Instagram
and increase your views or your
engagement on that clip tip number 18
for increasing your reels views is
creating looping videos now this is
something that is relatively hard to
just explain in words but essentially
what you're going to do the easiest way
I've found to create looping videos is
to record your call to action followed
by your hook in one clip kind of one
sentence that is your call to action and
then your hook and then in the editing
phase you're gonna chop off that video
chop it right in the middle between the
call to action and the hook take the
hook put it back at the front of the
timeline and then it will create a
seamless transition as the video ends
with the call to action seamlessly
looping back to your hook now again
that's a little bit more of an advanced
strategy and I do have a specific
tutorial for that inside the insta Club
Hub where I can kind of show you how to
do this and show you what the timeline
will look like and walk you through in
more depth and detail how to make a
looping video we even provide scripts
for looping videos in the insta Club Hub
but looping reels looping videos in
general are a great way to increase your
views because your viewer might not even
realize that they've watched the video
more than once but in doing so they
increase your algorithm Rank and then
you will be shown to more people tip
number 19 for increasing your reels
views is to incorporate SEO into your
reels hashtags yes fall into the
category of SEO hashtags while they
aren't as effective as they were in 2016
2017 they can still be beneficial and
help you get more views so adding a few
hashtags that specifically relate to
your content can be a way to reach new
people but more strategically than that
would be adding text on the screen
adding text in your closed captions or
adding text in your caption below the
video that includes keywords that are
searchable that allow the algorithm them
to more easily figure out what your
video is about and thus show it to the
right people and yes the Instagram
algorithm is smart enough to tell what
do the closed captions say what are you
saying in the video what is all the text
on the screen say what's in your caption
what's in your comments what are your
hashtags it can look at all of that to
help figure out what your reel is about
and thus improve your SEO or search
engine optimization on Instagram and
last but not least in fact I should
probably say last but most tip number 20
is to use what is being called the
Pygmalion effect or to edit your reels
in Vox style now what was popular in
2020 through mid 2022 was dancing short
lip sync trending audio reels then we
kind of transition into What's called
the Alex hormozzi style reels where
you're talking directly to the camera
and there's some big bold closed
captions across the screen and that was
what was popular for most of the last
365 days now now we're starting to move
into a space where people demand a
higher quality they have higher
expectations think about it there's more
competition there's more reels that
we've all consumed there's more videos
that we've all watched there's more
videos that we've all made and so our
expectation for what's going to grab our
attention and what really qualifies as a
great high quality reel it continues to
improve our our bar continues to be
raised and so this specific effect or
style is essentially a style that has a
lot going on it's a style that has
closed captions and it has b-roll and it
has graphics and it has a lot of complex
editing now again this is something that
if you're someone who's brand new to
Reels this is something you probably
shouldn't even shoot for this is a style
of editing that is probably unattainable
and would take you hours and hours and
hours and so much frustration and
headache that don't even worry about it
either hire a professional Editor to
create this style for you or just know
that eventually you'll figure this out
and eventually you'll get to the level
of quality that you can create the style
reel but if you're someone who's
watching and you're not really having
success anymore with trending audios
with lip syncs with the kind of b-roll
text on screen reels or even with the
direct to camera talking head reels like
we see so often this might be a style
that you might want to emulate or you
might want to try to create yourself it
is more labor intensive it is more
advanced it does require more time
energy creativity and effort but of
course that is what people are looking
for people are looking for that
creativity people are looking for that
kind of effort that kind of quality in
order to really stand out and grab their
attention thank you so much for
listening today if you haven't already
if you found this video valuable or
educational please give a thumbs up and
consider subscribing for more content
every single week we release at least
two of these YouTube videos where we are
sharing advice tips strategies and
recommendations about not just how to
grow your following but how to make
money and build your business online
thank you so much for listening and if
you want want to call in and leave a
question just visit
speakpipe.com forward slash build your
tribe and you can call in and leave us a
question to possibly be answered or
addressed on one of our upcoming
episodes but again thank you so much for
listening and as always happy networking
[Music]
thank you